testing testing one two three one two three testing testing one two three this is tuesday may 2nd uh talking with john stewart senior majoring in actually junior right now almost senior majoring in geography minoring in business and your student leadership role is um i'm the interfraternity council president interfraternity council president yes sir
To introduce yourself to anyone who might hear this tape or read the transcription, give a biographical summary of your progress so far.
Where did you grow up?
What did family do?
High school?
I grew up my entire life in Dallas.
I went to a small private high school in North Dallas called Trinity Christian Academy.
Decided in, I guess, about February of my senior year in high school that Texas A&M was the place for me to go.
I'm a second generation Aggie.
Dad graduated in 69 and served in the Corps of Cadets back then.
And I came here, first semester here was fall of 99.
And in the spring of 2000, that's when I decided to pledge a fraternity.
And it's kind of an interesting thing.
Having dad talk to me about the whole fraternity situation just because there is a nice healthy rivalry between the core and the fraternity system here on campus because it is similar in many ways and it has its differences.
I think the main foundation between both of them are very similar.
And so therefore there is, I think, a good healthy rivalry between the two systems.
And so Dad and I obviously have that nice little rivalry going as well at home.
When you were in high school, you came to visit a number of times.
Yes, sir.
I've been to A&M since I was in the womb.
Mom and Dad had season tickets to football games when they were pregnant with me.
And they had brought me down here quite a number of times.
But I did make one official visit my senior year.
It was during January.
And I had brought my...
best friend from high school with me and he was very he was wavering between coming coming to A&M going to Aveline Christian or going to Baylor and so I was I was really pushing if I did not I had I looked into playing football in college and I had looked at a lot of smaller schools around the state and around the the south of the United States and I said if I'm not going to play football I'm going to go to A&M so we made our visit down here and
Luckily, I came down here with him because I was pointing out a lot of the stuff that my parents had taught me about A&M when he came down.
And come to find out, we've lived together all three years that I've been here so far.
And our friendship's gotten even closer.
But absolutely fell in love with it.
We had made the visit that weekend.
of A&M on that Friday I believe and then that Saturday we made the visit to Baylor and there was just honestly no comparison so I wound up I think winning them over for A&M that weekend.
What do you think were the key factors for you endorsing your choice and him helping him make the choice for A&M?
What did A&M do right on those visits?
Well, definitely, I think the one thing that stood out in his mind, and as well as in my mind, it just kind of reinforced a lot of things, was definitely the tour that we took.
Just being able to see campus during an actual school.
It was on a Friday, so it was still a school day.
Being able to see the campus like we did
just kind of in the eyes of, it was a senior in the corps that took us around, so it was kind of the eyes and a good old ag and just being able to intermingle with the students there.
We had visited the rec center as well that afternoon and just, I mean honestly everybody says it but it is so true, just the friendly atmosphere that is on campus.
It was just very prevalent when we came down, and it stood out, I know, in my good friends' mind, just as well as mine.
And I think it really did reinforce my mom and my dad realizing that this should be the place for me and really, truly is the place for me.
Did you go to fish camp?
I did.
Loved fish camp.
I was I went to one I think it was the first session of fish camp summer 99 and Made some great friends over fish camp still hang out with a lot of people that I met in my color group and It was it was a lot of fun ever just I remember it being so so hot that summer but it was still we had so much fun and I mean I still cherish a lot of the stuff that we had done during fish camp and and am I correct in
Understanding that you learn some traditions and yells and songs
but also some advice about how to survive?
Correct.
I mean, a lot of the stuff that they give you, they give you a couple packets and stuff worth of information.
And of course, a lot of the packets have to do with a lot of the traditions, a lot of the yells, a lot of that kind of stuff.
That is valuable that you go through and read through just so you make sure you're not looking like a fool during the first football game, first yell practice.
But also,
They did give you some packets on just some easy tips on your first couple weeks at A&M, what are some good things to do.
I remember getting some good sheets of good places like just to study on campus and off of campus and just some good advice to when I came in.
It wasn't so foreign to me.
I already had kind of an idea of what all was going to be going on.
If you were the advisor to Fish Camp,
is there anything you would suggest that they do more of or less of?
Wow, it has been a while since I was at Fish Camp, but I think they definitely do, they did a really, really, really good job.
They break you down into discussion groups, and so you're in a group of probably about
I guess 10 or 15 people and really interacting with those people, finding out where everybody's coming from.
And then you have two discussion leaders.
They're called DG leaders.
And with those two people, they really do do a good job of just kind of the personal
stuff and then you do go into big groups where the whole fish camp goes into the main auditorium there at camp and they teach you a lot of stuff about campus.
Now back then that was still during bonfire so they'd have all the crew chiefs of bonfire come in and really explain to you what all bonfire entailed and stuff like that and it was really cool to see that.
and they'd bring some people from the Corps of Cadets to explain the different, I guess, the different branches of the Corps and just the different, like the Ross Volunteers and Parson Mellon Cavalry and different things like that to kind of teach you what the differences in the Corps are.
I think definitely the one thing that I wish I would have heard a little bit more is
I know there's almost 800 student organizations on campus, but there are some organizations on campus that are a lot bigger than others.
Obviously the core, the fraternity system, or the Greek system as a whole, and things like that.
We're still trying to, right now,
be able to have Greek life, be able to go in and actually speak at Fish Camp.
We've been able to go to Howdy Camp and Transfer Camp, and I've actually gotten to speak at Transfer Camp, which was a really cool opportunity, but we're still working on the Fish Camp just because they don't want to discriminate against other organizations.
Still, right now, I think that it could be a little bit more universally represented when they come in and have people talk and stuff.
So that's probably the one thing I'd have changed.
All right.
Now, here's a question which is a generational difference.
Years ago.
When you came to enroll, how did you get here, and what all did you bring?
As far as stuff that I brought in to live with, wow.
well i we moved down with my roommate who had been my best friend since seventh grade um and uh we we had got uh now who is we my i my my mom and dad brought me down and my best friend's mom and dad brought them down so there's the six of us that brought us down and how many vehicles we had
my car I had a pickup back then so I had my pickup and then Ryan's he had his sports utility vehicle and then of course my dad had brought down their Tahoe and then the colliers brought down I can't remember what car they brought down but so we had four cars I had loaded my folks Tahoe
up pretty well.
We had the U-Haul trailer attached to my dad's Tahoe.
The thing was packed to the brim and I had my pickup packed to the brim as well.
Of course, I mean, I had so many clothes.
I swear, every year I come down with, I bring less and less clothes, especially t-shirts.
And I come down with a few t-shirts.
And when I leave, like my drawers this year when I came down were not full at all.
And now I can't fit all my clothes.
You just accrue so many.
so many shirts and so I had brought down I think a little too many clothes and just a lot of stuff that I was like you know I'd like to bring that down just in case I need it
Really didn't, but definitely had my computer, of course.
Mom, I think, helped me go a little overboard with all the stuff.
She wanted to make sure that I wasn't forgetting anything.
Did you bring a television?
We had a TV.
We had in our dorm room what we called our Tower of Power.
On one side of the room, we had our beds lined up to the back wall in the corners, and so they were parallel to each other.
And in the middle, on the far wall, we had our TV on top of a dresser and on top of a little cabinet.
And then in between our beds we had some shelving that we used kind of as our bedside table.
And then on top of that we had our refrigerator.
On top of that we had our microwave.
And on top of that we had our stereo with kind of a shelf going across the microwave to where we fit our speakers.
on top of that shelf with our stereo in between.
So this was in what dorm?
Dunn Hall.
And rooms are not that big.
So we were a little cramped for space, but we made do.
And it was a lot of fun that year.
Do you know who that dormitory is named after?
Do you know anything about him?
It's been a while.
I remember learning a little bit about him when we first moved in, but that was about it.
Thank you.
Describe living in Dunhall.
It was a lot of fun.
I remember the wing we had.
We lived on the second floor.
And they had kind of two short wings and then two longer wings.
And we lived on a short wing.
And we became really close friends with almost everybody.
Our next door neighbors, they were suites.
So two rooms shared a bathroom.
And our suite mates wound up becoming two of my roommates and I's best friends.
And we've lived with them since freshman year.
And it was a small world that they...
had come from Highland Park and the two of Ryan and I had come from North Dallas so we had a lot of the same friends that kind of thing so it was just kind of a small world situation there and the other two that lived on the other side of us were also from Dallas and we knew a lot of the same people so we hit it off with them the two guys that lived across the hall we were good friends with
So there was probably a group of about 10 of us that were really close just on that one wing.
And I remember at least back in the fall, this was the last year, it was the fall that Bonfire had fallen.
But leading up to it, we had cut weekend on Saturday and Sunday mornings.
And so we'd prepare for cut weekend and it was an interesting time because they'd come at five o'clock in the morning.
and start knocking on the door beating on the door they blasted a radio or their stereo wherever they were the crew chiefs were living because he had a kind of a crew chief for each floor of each dorm and so they'd come around and they'd beat on the doors you know get up time for cut get up time for cut so they'd try to recruit as many guys they could to go out there and cut and normally on saturday mornings like we were staying up pretty late on friday nights either going to the movie or
goofing off or whatever so we were pretty tired on Saturday mornings and Sunday mornings of course we went to church so we never went out to cut on Sundays but still it never failed they come through about 5 5 30 in the morning yelling at us to get up I mean I remember the first morning that happened we weren't expecting it nobody told us and I remember us just woke up dead asleep and I so freaked out I had no idea what was going on we finally figured it out
So we would try to sleep through it and they'd bang on our doors.
I remember very vividly one Saturday morning, the RA in the hall would go outside and monitor the crew chiefs coming down, making sure they weren't doing anything irrational to any dorms or any students or anything.
So I remember it was one Saturday morning, our RA, it was his vacation weekend, so he wasn't there.
And I don't think RA was monitoring the hall that morning.
And just so happened that our suite mates decided it would be kind of funny.
We had a white board on the outside of our door to write messages and little notes and whatnot.
And they had written a note on our door saying, go away.
We don't want to go to your cut.
Leave us alone.
Just kind of taunting the crew chiefs, making it look like that we wrote it on our own door.
And not having the RA that morning, they had taken axe handles.
And when we moved out, we had markings all up and down our door from the beating on our door, trying to get us out of there, yelling at us so loud to get us out of that.
And they were there for probably a good five, 10 minutes just yelling at us to get out.
trying desperately to get into our door and get into our room.
I remember wondering why they were doing that just us that morning and waking up and seeing that note on the door was quite humorous.
About when, as far as you can recall, about when in terms of calendar did bonfire work began that fall?
I don't know.
Cut began, I think, probably mid-September.
So a couple of months.
A couple of months you had worth of Saturday and Sunday mornings coming around and beating on the doors and stuff.
How long after you all moved into the dormitory, how long before there were any kind of pranks or jokes or hazing of freshmen or whatever?
There wasn't many...
things of hazing a freshman that the upperclassmen would do to us.
It was more the stuff that we'd do to each other.
Ah, man, it was probably,
September to when probably I guess beginning to middle of September to when we heard so many stories from my dad when he was in the Corps of just little pranks that they pull on each other in the dorms and my roommate's dad had gone to West Point so we had heard a lot of stories about what they had done and of course football coaches in high school would tell us all the pranks so we had I think we had we'd taken some of those some of those good stories and
try to put them to use.
And I remember one of the, I think one of the first pranks that we started to pull was my roommate, and of course sharing a bathroom, he shared a shower and shared a toilet, and you had two sinks in there.
Well, we decided one morning that we would try to, we heard the trick of taking the shower nozzle off and packing grape Kool-Aid.
into the shower nozzle and screwing it back up there so whenever they turned on the water, it'd be Kool-Aid running out instead of just water.
It didn't work too well because our suite mate normally turned on the water and let it run for a couple of minutes before he got in.
By the time he got in, it was done, but he looked at the water and it was all purple in the shower.
So he was kind of wondering about that.
So that kind of sparked it off.
We've done a lot of things.
They had come over to our side of the room, one of the better pranks, and they took our mattresses with, we had our beds made, one of the few, probably a few days we had our bed made.
They'd taken our beds and they'd switched the mattresses and all the pillows and everything, and they switched.
They just picked it up and switched them.
And my roommate and I,
came in from wherever we were that night and saw our, basically our rooms had been switched.
And so that was one of the better pranks.
We couldn't figure out, we wondered why they spent all that time unmaking the bed and making it again, just then realizing that they had just taken the mattress off the bed.
That was a good prank.
One of the, I think the best pranks that we pulled were on the guys that lived across the hall from us.
It was during exam week of December, so the first semester.
And the guys had gone out, and they were going to a party or whatever that night.
And we decided it would be fun to duct tape their door shut.
And so we had a bunch of duct tape in the room, and it was red duct tape.
So what we did, we started at the base of the door of the door frame.
And there was a good space between the door frame went flush with the wall, and the door was kind of inset into the door frame.
So there was a pretty good space.
So we just started duct taping across the wall.
and we had gotten it to where we got probably about a fourth of the way up and we realized it was going to take a lot more duct tape so we had gathered all the duct tape in the hall that we could and we just went about halfway up.
We realized there was a good space in between the door and the doors opened in so what we did was we took all the trash from our room, dumped it in there, packed it tight, got trash from everybody else's room, started packing it tight, got into their bathroom
because of their suite mates.
And we wound up taping their bathroom door shut to where it was hard for them to get in with duct tape.
And then we took all their toiletries, all their toothbrush, toothpaste, hairbrush, all that stuff, and we had duct taped it to the door.
And then we went ahead and finished it off and it was completely flush of duct tape.
It was just an extension of the wall.
And I remember them getting home that night and we had already kind of gone to bed, but we could just hear them start to yell.
And they tore down the duct tape.
And when they tore down the duct tape, all the trash, of course, fell all on top of it.
It was a bunch of newspapers, too.
And then they got into their room and couldn't get into their bathroom because we had duct taped that shut.
So they finally got into there.
Woke up the next morning and they had penny jammed our door.
And I fixed the door and got that done and there was just this humongous pile of trash in the hallway that we had to clean up that morning.
It was one of the better pranks that we pulled.
In the dining hall, what was the routine for y'all?
Were there any pranks, jokes?
Not as much in the dining hall.
It was, especially towards the end of the year, it was more just survival to get out of the dining hall.
So we wouldn't get food poisoning or anything like that.
The dining hall experience was more or less just kind of get in and get out.
And you all didn't use core equipment?
nicknames for aggie food did you oh no sir but i have heard most of the ones that my dad had used and he would always ask me on the phone well so and so whatever and i'd be like what world are you talking about but i we had i had some good friends that were that are in the course still and when they were freshmen we they'd come eat with us when they got their nights off and so they they'd be calling it whatever and it was it was kind of fun that way uh let's talk about academics sure how did you
Did you register in advance?
How did your first semester courses?
We had orientation over the summer, and so it was about June, and it was a three-day orientation, and on the last day of orientation, during orientation, you'd take a lot of your placement exams to where you could try to get out of some classes.
So I wound up, I think, picking up three hours just taking some tests like that.
And then the last morning, we had met with advisors the day before, seeing what I needed to take within our college.
And then from there, you went ahead and registered for courses.
That next morning, you went into the dean's office of your college, and you had an appointment at whatever time of the day.
And then you went in, and they kind of helped you pick your schedule for that first semester.
And you were majoring in?
Geography.
And that was your start?
That was my start, yes, sir.
And as far as you knew at that point, what was your career goal?
As far as then, my career goal was...
Wow.
I knew I probably wanted to go to grad school, but what I wanted to do was more or less, I think, yikes, what was my career?
I haven't changed my major, but I've kind of changed career goal.
I think what I wanted to do was I planned on minoring in business and what I kind of wanted to do back then was wind up getting my major in geography, my minor in business and probably going on getting my MBA and doing probably some development type work.
Real estate development?
That kind of stuff.
I've kind of continued on the same pace but as of right now I'm planning on going to law school so I've changed a little bit as far as
the near future plans.
Describe that first semester of going to class, describe being a freshman, academically a freshman at A&M.
I still had a little bit of my high school senioritis in me the first, I think, month.
Realizing that they give you a bunch of reading to do and I'd be like, oh, I can get it done later.
Not really staying with my readings and staying with all the coursework that I had.
I was only taking 13 hours, so it wasn't like I was taking a lot of courses.
But they were, I remember going into, I'm trying to remember what my biggest class was that semester.
I think I had a class, probably my biggest class was about 150 to 200 people.
So I remember coming from a smaller high school, and I think our biggest class was maybe 25 or 30.
It was a little bit of a change, but it wasn't anything that I wasn't, it made me uncomfortable or anything.
I just sat close to the front of the room.
I just remember it was,
the pace of the class was going a lot faster than I thought it would, and just taking a lot of notes and realizing, wow, there's just a lot of information.
And I remember the first testing period came around.
Didn't do so hot because I wasn't staying with my studies like I should, but it kind of made me turn around a little bit.
It was a tough first semester just because of the fact that I wasn't used to this kind of studying, this kind of learning environment.
Had you gotten academic advice from your parents or a high school counselor?
Well, the high school that I went to was, they prided themselves on being a college preparatory high school.
So we had gotten a lot of advice as far as just like how to note take, that kind of thing.
Just kind of basic skills that you will definitely need and you just kind of learn to live with in college.
And got a lot of advice, especially from my parents, especially from my dad because
Dad being in the business school when he was here, he had taken some finance.
He, I think, wound up majoring in finance, but his first finance course he took, he failed.
And it was his first semester's freshman year.
And it was, he always was warning me, just be careful, stay up with your grades, whatnot.
So got some good advice from the parents about that kind of stuff.
And I'd taken a really great course that first semester too.
It was A&M.
They still offer a course called Succeeding in College.
And it was, I think it was a,
to our credit just course that you learn how to just the basic skills of college as your first semester and even though it doesn't count towards my degree but I do recommend any freshman coming into A&M to take some kind of course like that whether it be the summer coming in or that first semester just because a lot of the study skills we got, the reading skills, learning how to
take good notes just from readings and things like that.
It was very, very valuable.
So I got some good information from across the board.
Did you have some teachers that first year that you now think were really important to you?
Yes, sir.
We had...
Let's see, I kept in touch, especially my spring semester.
I had taken my first geography class in the fall and I took my second geography class in the spring.
The professor's name was Dr. Bednarz, and he taught economic geography, and he specialized more in the urban side of geography, the side that I was really looking to do and really wanted to be involved with.
So I remember going in, talking to him a little bit,
really getting to know him fairly well.
And I've wound up taking three classes from him since I've been at A&M.
And just a good, valuable resource.
I've gone into him to talk to him about possible internships and future plans and that kind of thing.
I've also talked to another professor a little bit here and there, was my first geography professor, Dr. Igor Vonovic.
And he really does specialize in city, like kind of city geography.
How do you spell his name?
Is it a B or a V?
V, V-O-J.
It was Russian sounding last name, but he was from Canada.
But just talking to him a little bit here and there in my freshman year, just about
advice on what to do and that kind of thing.
So he helped me a lot I think my first semester there and especially my succeeding in college teacher.
He's now one of the athletic advisors.
Rodney Paris was a very very very valuable resource that I had back then.
Describe a typical academic day.
What time did you get up, and what did you do when?
Normally, I think I had class starting about 9 o'clock every day, so I'd probably wake up about 7.30, 7.45ish, so it wasn't
It was a little bit later than I always used to in high school, but the big thing was I wasn't used to staying up as late as I had in high school my first semester just because you always had people around and you were going to bed probably 12, 1, 2 o'clock in the morning just not even thinking about it.
It was like a big slumber party all the time.
And waking up that early in the morning, we'll use those in quotes, was a little bit more difficult, but we, I mean, get up.
I had normally, Monday, Wednesday, Friday classes were shorter than the Tuesday, Thursday.
And, well, of course, they still are.
you go to i i had i think about two or three classes on monday wednesday friday in the morning um yeah you'd go to breakfast i go i go to breakfast i'd go down and go to breakfast and then come back i'd shower go to breakfast and then come back upstairs and get my books and then either ride my bike off the class or walk into class and then i go to my first couple classes and come back and normally uh
about I guess it was probably about 12 30 everybody was kind of finishing up their morning classes because freshman year seemed to be almost everybody had the same schedule so you kind of were on the same routine we come back eat lunch with the roommates and suite mates and stuff and normally one day a week we'd go off campus to go eat lunch but normally we'd go downstairs and maybe go grab chick-fil-a or
something like that, or go down into the cafeteria, grab lunch, and then in the afternoon we had, I had my kinesiology was weightlifting, so we'd go, I'd go to weightlifting, I guess it was probably mid-afternoon, and then after that we'd head to the rec center.
I'd finish my weightlifting that I didn't get finished in class, and then we'd go either play basketball or racquetball or go.
Just for fun.
Just for fun, go swimming in the pool.
just in time to come back, shower, go down to dinner.
We probably ate dinner, I'm guessing, around 6.30 or 7, and then come back upstairs and either study or think about studying and watch TV.
In fact, I had a lot of meetings and stuff.
How easy was it to study in the room in terms of noise in the dorm?
Studying in the room wasn't that bad as far as noise went.
There was just so many distractions in the room.
You had your TV, you had, we had, of course, so many people would just always come into the room, because everybody had their door open, so anybody that walked by would stop by and say hi.
And of course, you had your computer there, and so there was always,
room to go on the internet and dork around or play computer games on the computer or whatnot.
So normally when I'd go study, we had study carrels at the end of each hall.
So I'd either go down to the study carrel and study where I got a lot of good studying done there, or I'd go off to the library.
and go study that because I'm still the same way.
It's tough for me to study within my room just because I have so many things there that I can always be doing and distract me so I need to sometimes go off and study on my own.
I went outside a lot when the weather was nice and studied out there.
What did you and your buddies wear to class?
How did you dress?
I dressed fairly just I mean wore a lot of just polo shirts and khaki shorts and stuff.
I think the more time went on the more comfortable.